hello so you may remember a couple of
weeks back that we made this video
formed entirely out of Skype video
messages
well since posting that video Skype came
to us and they said hey there jacksgap
and we said hey Skype and then they said
how would you like to shoot and direct
three documentaries for us shot in three
different countries around the world
directing documentaries is something
I've always wanted to do and it's also
something I've always wanted to bring
onto this channel so we II said yes
please and suddenly undertook the
incredibly overwhelming task of
directing shooting writing editing
producing and distributing three
documentaries shot in three different
countries around the world the first
thing we did was hire a researcher her
name is Louisa she has about 30 years
more experience in documentaries than we
doing is also a complete and utter
genius at research together we started
to look for stories internationally of
people who were using Skype in an
interesting or unusual way after
literally months of paperwork and emails
and back-and-forth we finally found our
three subjects hello hello there hey
how's a guy we talked at length and
learn more about their stories and where
they lived and their lifestyles and even
that part of the process was incredibly
fascinating just being sat in our
bedroom but learning about a complete
alternative lifestyle that we wouldn't
otherwise have known about we were very
lucky to find three incredibly friendly
and open and generally just lovely
humans and I think that made our job a
lot easier
the next thing we had to do was find a
production manager who could come on
board and well manage the production
there would be in charge of flight times
and shoot times and production schedules
and edits and dates and money and
equipment and delivery times and so we
hired
Malusi Lucy is a fellow youtuber link in
the box below but also a far more
organized person than I could ever be
the next thing we wanted to do was bring
on someone who had a good knowledge of
cameras
editing and footage logging because when
you're working on shoots like this the
most common thing to go wrong is
something technical on the shoot so we
hired Tim to work with us as a camera
assistant and general assistant on set
and he was incredibly helpful and last
thing we had a Finn who'd be the overall
producer and creative director of the
series piecing together the whole vision
helping organize it bringing everyone
together and also coming with us on the
shoots to make sure everything went
smoothly which left me to focus on
directing and shooting the actual
documentaries which is a slightly
nerve-racking thought as I've never had
any technical training in that area but
I honestly believe in these situations
the best way to learn is just to throw
yourself into it and do it and learn on
the job and we were very lucky that
Skype gave us the opportunity to be able
to do that and so before we knew it we'd
assembled a team and the first shoot day
was rapidly approaching the day before
we left we laid out all of our gear to
do a tech run through and also attempt
to squeeze it into three relatively
small bags and then we were off to three
different countries carrying an insane
amount of luggage success right in York
we are leaving us out arrived in limine
we're on a very school plane
the ability to walk in someone's life
and capture who they are as a person and
what they do for a living and the way
they live their life in a short amount
of days without intruding and their
already existing life requires a certain
skill which I felt I certainly had to
home during this trip and I'm very
grateful to be able to have had that
experience because I feel like it's
something I'll continue to use when
making documentaries and films in the
future as I mentioned at the beginning I
think we were very very lucky to have
had three very friendly and lovely and
open subjects who ultimately made our
job very easy and I was also very lucky
to stand next to an incredible team of
people who were very patient and happy
to work longer hours and also very aware
of the fact that we will learning
throughout this process and that made my
job a lot easier a lot more pleasant
we're currently editing the short
documentaries together and I'm
incredibly excited to share them with
you guys
and they're certainly very different to
anything we've ever made before but I'm
incredibly proud of them and I know the
team are very proud of them and I
genuinely think that you guys will like
them I would also like to say a huge
thanks to Skype for giving us the
opportunity to go out and do these and
trusting us even though we were learning
on the job and and also just enabling us
to be able to make something cool and
something that we're proud of that is
very cool of you Skype so thank you for
that
if you're at all interested in any of
the behind the scenes like the equipment
we used or the processes we took to make
the documentaries we're going to be
putting some posters up on jacksgap look
on my web site along with some behind
the scenes images so make sure you go
check that out and that is it that is
everything thank you for watching and I
will see you guys soon hi
you